README.md, before:

# Live Chat Application

Welcome to the **Live Chat Application**! This app allows users to chat privately, one-on-one, in real time. Built with privacy and scalability in mind, the app ensures end-to-end encryption, highly available infrastructure, and an effortless deployment process. It's a great example of integrating modern cloud technologies like Kubernetes, Terraform, and AWS to deliver a robust and secure chat platform.

## Features

- **1-on-1 Private Chat**: Engage in private conversations with other users.
- **Real-Time Communication**: Uses WebSocket connections to enable live, real-time chat.
- **Strong Encryption**: All messages are encrypted with AES symmetric encryption, and the AES keys themselves are secured with RSA encryption.
- **Secure by Default**: All communication is over HTTPS, ensuring privacy.
- **High Availability**: The app runs on an AWS EKS cluster spread across multiple availability zones, ensuring continuous operation even if some components fail or availability zones go down.
- **Scalable Architecture**: Designed to handle increasing loads with ease.
  - **Modular Architecture**: The backend (handling WebSocket traffic and user state) is separate from the UI module (serving web pages), enabling granular scalability.
  - **Autoscaling**: Both cluster and horizontal pod autoscaling are implemented to accommodate virtually unlimited users.
- **Redis Integration**: Redis is used as a message broker between backend pods and as an in-memory database to manage user state efficiently.


## Built With

- **Backend**: Python, Flask, Flask-SocketIO
- **Frontend**: JavaScript, HTML, CSS
- **Infrastructure**: AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Helm for Kubernetes deployment, Terraform for resource provisioning
- **Message Broker & Cache**: Redis

## Requirements

Before you can deploy the application, make sure you have the following available on your local machine:

- **Operating System**: MacOS or Linux
- **AWS Account**: An active AWS account to create and manage resources.
- **AWS Credentials**: Set up as environment variables (`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`).
- **Tools**
  - **AWS CLI**
  - **Terraform (>= 1.3.2)**
  - **Docker**
  - **Helm**
  - **Kubectl**
  - **OpenSSL**

## Getting Started

To deploy the chat application, follow these steps:

1. **Review Configuration**: 
   - Open `config.sh` to customize settings as needed. This is where you can fine-tune the app’s behavior.
   
2. **Set Flask Secret**:
   - Make sure to export the Flask secret key (you can set any value you like!):
     ```bash
     export FLASK_SECRET_KEY=<your-secret-key>
     ```

3. **Build Resources**:
   - Run the `build.sh` script. This will:
     - Generate a self-signed SSL certificate and store it in the `./cert` directory.
     - Provision AWS resources using Terraform.
     - Build and push Docker images to AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR).
     - Deploy the app on Kubernetes using Helm.
     - Configure `kubectl` to interact with your newly created EKS cluster from your machine.

4. **Access the App**:
   - After running `build.sh`, you'll be given a DNS address from the Application Load Balancer. You can access the app by visiting that URL.
   - Log in by entering a username, then click on another user’s name in the lobby to start a private chat.

5. **Destroy Resources**:
   - To clean up after you're done, run `destroy.sh`. This will remove all the AWS resources created during the setup process, including Terraform-managed infrastructure and Kubernetes deployments.

## SSL Certificate

This project uses a self-signed SSL certificate, which is generated during the build process with `build.sh`. While this works for testing and development, note that browsers will warn users when accessing the app since the certificate is not from a recognized Certificate Authority (CA). For production, you should use a CA-signed certificate, which can be configured with AWS and Terraform. (This would require purchasing a domain for a year at minumum, and thus isn't suitable for this project).

## Development Notes

- The `build.sh` script is designed to be idempotent. You can run it multiple times without causing issues, which makes updating the app or reconfiguring resources a smooth experience. If you need to make changes to the app, simply update the code and run `build.sh` again.
- For testing purposes, the self-signed SSL certificate should be sufficient. However, in a production environment, consider using a trusted Certificate Authority for the SSL certificate to avoid browser warnings.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You are free to use, modify, and distribute the software as long as you include the original copyright and license notice. For more details, please refer to the full text of the license.

Commit message:

Remove EKS module version from config

README.md, after:

# Live Chat Application

Welcome to the **Live Chat Application**! This app allows users to chat privately, one-on-one, in real time. Built with privacy and scalability in mind, the app ensures end-to-end encryption, highly available infrastructure, and an effortless deployment process. It's a great example of integrating modern cloud technologies like Kubernetes, Terraform, and AWS to deliver a robust and secure chat platform.

## Features

- **1-on-1 Private Chat**: Engage in private conversations with other users.
- **Real-Time Communication**: Uses WebSocket connections to enable live, real-time chat.
- **Strong Encryption**: All messages are encrypted with AES symmetric encryption, and the AES keys themselves are secured with RSA encryption.
- **Secure by Default**: All communication is over HTTPS, ensuring privacy.
- **High Availability**: The app runs on an AWS EKS cluster spread across multiple availability zones, ensuring continuous operation even if some components fail or availability zones go down.
- **Scalable Architecture**: Designed to handle increasing loads with ease.
  - **Modular Architecture**: The backend (handling WebSocket traffic and user state) is separate from the UI module (serving web pages), enabling granular scalability.
  - **Autoscaling**: Both cluster and horizontal pod autoscaling are implemented to accommodate virtually unlimited users.
- **Redis Integration**: Redis is used as a message broker between backend pods and as an in-memory database to manage user state efficiently.


## Built With

- **Backend**: Python, Flask, Flask-SocketIO
- **Frontend**: JavaScript, HTML, CSS
- **Infrastructure**: AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Helm for Kubernetes deployment, Terraform for resource provisioning
- **Message Broker & Cache**: Redis

## Requirements

Before you can deploy the application, make sure you have the following available on your local machine:

- **Operating System**: MacOS or Linux
- **AWS Account**: An active AWS account to create and manage resources.
- **AWS Credentials**: Set up as environment variables (`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`).
- **Tools**
  - **AWS CLI**
  - **Terraform (>= 1.3.2)**
  - **Docker**
  - **Helm**
  - **Kubectl**
  - **OpenSSL**

## Getting Started

To deploy the chat application, follow these steps:

1. **Review Configuration**: 
   - Open `config.sh` to customize settings as needed. This is where you can fine-tune the app’s behavior.
   
2. **Set Flask Secret**:
   - Make sure to export the Flask secret key (you can set any value you like!):
     ```bash
     export FLASK_SECRET_KEY=<your-secret-key>
     ```

3. **Build Resources**:
   - Run the `build.sh` script. This will:
     - Generate a self-signed SSL certificate and store it in the `./cert` directory.
     - Provision AWS resources using Terraform.
     - Build and push Docker images to AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR).
     - Deploy the app on Kubernetes using Helm.
     - Configure `kubectl` to interact with your newly created EKS cluster from your machine.

4. **Access the App**:
   - After running `build.sh`, you'll be given a DNS address from the Application Load Balancer. You can access the app by visiting that URL.
   - Log in by entering a username, then click on another user’s name in the lobby to start a private chat.

5. **Destroy Resources**:
   - To clean up after you're done, run `destroy.sh`. This will remove all the AWS resources created during the setup process, including Terraform-managed infrastructure and Kubernetes deployments.

## SSL Certificate

This project uses a self-signed SSL certificate, which is generated during the build process with `build.sh`. While this works for testing and development, note that browsers will warn users when accessing the app since the certificate is not from a recognized Certificate Authority (CA). For production, you should use a CA-signed certificate, which can be configured with AWS and Terraform. (This would require purchasing a domain for a year at minumum, and thus isn't suitable for this project).

## Development Notes

- The `build.sh` script is designed to be idempotent. You can run it multiple times without causing issues, which makes updating the app or reconfiguring resources a smooth experience. If you need to make changes to the app, simply update the code and run `build.sh` again.
- You can access the cluster using kubectl commands from the IP address used during resource provisioning. However, to prevent inconsistencies in the Terraform state, it's recommended to avoid manual modifications to the cluster.
- For testing purposes, the self-signed SSL certificate should be sufficient. However, in a production environment, consider using a trusted Certificate Authority for the SSL certificate to avoid browser warnings.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You are free to use, modify, and distribute the software as long as you include the original copyright and license notice. For more details, please refer to the full text of the license.
